Senator McGarby, take this place now at the end of the committee table.
The captain position is on the left.
This is Mr. Cohen on the right.
Mr. Carr.
Senator Carr amount is wrapped for attention and the session will be underway in just a moment.
It is expected the first witness will be Secretary of the Army Stevens who is expected to test
the service morning only on the fact that the Army takes responsibility for making and
pressing the charges against Senator McCarthy in his death.
There he is, com, doider.
The committee will come to our duty and the chair will resume his custom of welcoming
our guests who have come to the committee room and advising them of the standing committee
room.
Which is to the effect that there are to be no manifestations, audibly, of approval or
disapproval at any time, like anybody, during the course of the hearings.
The officers that you see in the room and the playing clothesmen who have scattered to
the audience have standing ordered from the committee to politely escort from the room
immediately.
Anybody who is in the position to which you enter, which were to refrain entirely from
manifestations of an audible nature, either expressing your approval or disapproval.
The chair will play at the beginning as we open this morning that when these hearings
recess a week ago, the chair was instructed by the motion declaring the recess to hold
whatever conferences he could to the end that these hearings could be continued and concluded
on a basis that would give the committee and the public as complete a picture as it is
possible to provide under the Attorney General's interpretation of the President's
Executive Order, Dates and May 17th.
These conferences have been held.
We are resuming this testimony this morning with the expectation that it will continue
on schedule and without interruptions until all the available information has been up
hand.
The chair is pleased to report the Secretary Stevens who is here this morning to make
a statement relative to the relationship of the conference referred to by Mr. Adams
is taking place on January 21st to the hearings and that Senator McCarthy has advised the
chair that he and his associates are willing and ready to testify as soon as we have
concluded with witnesses from the Stevens-Adam side of this country.
It is not now known, of course, how much or how little in connection with this country
of the evidence will not be available to this committee as a result of the Executive
Order of May 17th.
However, if this committee were at this time to involve itself in the historic differences
occurring between the Executive and legislative branches of our government, on the question
of what testimony and evidence officials of the Executive Branch of government shall
appropriately provide the congressional committees.
It could well involve us in a collateral controversy which might be impossible to settle before
the expiration of the current conference.
Believing that the conclusion of these hearings by producing all of the pertinent information
which is now available is a paramount importance so that the vital work needing to be done both
by the Army and by this committee can be resumed without the restrictive burdens of these
hearings.
The Chair was pleased that these hearings can continue without being interrupted by an
effort to determine at this time with finality the appropriate relationships in connection
with congressional investigations which should properly prevail between the legislative
and the Executive Vences of our government.
In the view of the Chair, the Executive Order does not prevent the asking of any questions
that interrogatories might care to ask, but it will be up to each witness and his counsel
to make the plea of the protections set up by the Executive Order when it is considered
essential to do so.
In the interest of providing us all with the maximum access to the facts involved in this
dispute, it is the hope of the Chair that witnesses and counsel will take weeks to
be courted in the Executive Order as infrequently as they consider permissible and possible under
the courts.
I am just to cancel.
I understand the Secretary of the Army is here and if you want to follow him as you
please witness.
That is correct.
You are in for seat.
I wonder if we can have the next, the May 17th Executive Session with public.
I think they would benefit to the Senators.
The benefit to the people who are kind to follow this, but that time all of the Senators
expressed themselves.
Some of them are rather forcefully on this secrecy order to keep us getting in all the
facts.
We have had practically every Senators been prepared at a time.
There is nothing to be led on the table.
Everything should be public.
I would like to, at this time, ask the Chair if someone moves.
I can't make the motion myself.
My boss, hearing those minutes he made public, I will need them incidentally as they proceed
to these hearings.
Well, the chair of the committee has been released.
Any of the executive testimony or hearings is by a motion of the committee as the son
of Mr. Johnson knows.
The motion is made either in the Executive Session or in public Session, the chair of the
Glad to put it and incidentally the chair of the Glad to vote for it.
The chair believes that anything he says in the Executive Session is part of this public
debate.
Should we be made part of the public debate?
We probably wouldn't understand anything he says.
I was very much appreciative that the chair would put the Julie Voulterly committee so that
the chair of the Glad to have the motion before him and then the Senate Secretary of the
Senate said he cannot make the motion.
If one is made, I will be sure I will put it.
Mr. President, is that the Executive Session that was held at the 357, the Reptents of the
Army and yourself there, Mr. Chairman, I move that the record of that Executive Session
be made public and handled in the same manner as it relates to the previous Executive Session
that was made public.
I talked about that.
Now I have an motion before it, and I wish we'd made by Senator Carter and seconded
the introduction that the minutes or the notes of the Executive Session on May 17 at
which time all parties to the dispute were present at which time we discussed the problems
going out of the Executive Order.
They made public in the same manner as the other Executive Session at which we decided
to conduct this investigation in the first instance with May Public.
Is there any discussion or are you ready for the question?
I move as the substitute for that motion that every Executive Session we held, every minute
kept public, the whole record be made public from beginning to end.
I accept the substitute.
You don't know what these were.
I understand.
Obviously one cannot force C what might happen at an Executive Session on it.
It seems to me one is approved in the dark something that has not yet happened.
The meeting of May 17 is in a complete fact.
There's something to be candid out of the consequence of that.
I don't know that I can't go that far.
We just have the substitute to inject yourself into the future for all the Executive Session
meeting.
He's not here to tell.
We have a thousand minutes of future.
Next to the chairman of the work on the Make-A-M Public for the time of time, let's
start here and see in public from now on.
Bar of them.
Any further discussion?
He shared before he puts the motion would like to place this interpretation out of the subject
to the approval of the Senate of March and South America.
He believes that the motion should cover only those Executive Session at which members of the committee
were meeting and discussing matters involving our procedure and our decisions that it should
not include all of the Executive Session that has been taken from witnesses.
Is the chair correct in that interpretation?
Yes, you may get a second.
We'll appoint that as all restricted as well.
Point being we have heard a great many witnesses from the Executive Session.
Many of them in an interior exploratory capacity, many of whom those who call because they
didn't clearly have them called in public and it seems to me rather unnecessary to embarrass
the great many people.
Well, if you're going to have the conversation with all of this, then let's go.
If we're not going to have the correct discussions, you're going to keep bringing them out.
You have that spot, bring everything out up to date and keep everything out from the future.
We'll have this problem every day.
We'll get moving all along in public everything that is suit me.
Mr. Chairman, anytime.
In a minute, I'll go down to the public.
It's got another aspect, if I may, of this high procedure, these hearings along the same line.
But I want to completely agree with the position taken by my distinguished colleague from Arkansas.
The American people are interested in this problem.
And if we're going to put those Executive Session in, if we want to put in, and keep those out,
if we want to put out, put in parts of those, we want to put in, they will not be satisfied.
I think it's the duty of this committee to publish everything in a way of Executive Session
that we've had since these hearings started.
Well, Chair understands that that is the purpose of the substance abuse motion.
The reason we raised this question about witnesses who have been called in quite an array of them,
I might say, by both sides, who have appeared and been questioned.
I would just run members of the committee presence, sometimes too, just enough to take foreign testimony,
with the understanding and the part of the Army who called their witnesses,
and the Carpe side of scholars, and the witnesses.
If this was an exploratory nature, then we might well call them all in seconded situations.
And then, following, you call them in public sessions.
The Chair can be raised as a question whether it serves any good purpose,
to put in public testimony.
A lot of witnesses who have to be have answered the questions, those who call them,
that said, well, you have nothing to contribute.
Obviously, we call you an efficient expedition, nothing to fail.
You can go back home and no testimony needed, now.
If you want to needlessly embarrass those people with Chair has, of course, only one hope.
But it feels it would be rather unjust to witness this, who would call and has nothing to contribute.
That simply to publish this, because of the fact we have agreed that our own colleagues in our own decisions
and our own deliberations could be publics.
That's why I'm asking for the interpretation.
That's a job.
I think the whole thing is just cumbersome, as well as the record is concerned.
The whole thing is said in executive sessions, but remember this committee is explored for as you say.
But I don't, but I don't say we're just hanging out one meeting and putting it out here.
The public that's just exposed at all.
I can't believe we say from beginning to end, we'll have no more executive sessions,
we'll just move and publish.
I quite agree, as far as our own deliberations are concerned,
because it is my putting the motion wanted to have an interpretation.
So I know how to act, because I'm an expert, I'm going to have to have these notes not come to my office.
As far as I'm concerned, I'm just going to have to admit that I'm an army and everything.
I don't know how to express it anymore.
That's the unique army that's come on the average saying that's been made up of this record,
and secret, and public, or otherwise, now that you've made up of the record.
Everything is everything, Mr. Chairman.
We can't really make it to the very end, but we're going to have to talk to people on himself,
we're shooting rounds, we're going to go against that kind of motion,
because he has talked to so many witnesses.
So, if you have nothing to consider, obviously we're not going to make just the money up.
I'm just going to talk to them, but they're not a crime to a conference,
they're an opportunity for the financial integrity of witnesses,
and they're the members of the fiscal committee.
But it now was under the interpretation that Senator Metzon has placed on.
That was a charity within this act of not being altogether not expected in committee meeting.
If the members of the committee were not present, I don't know, the council has been interrogating witnesses.
That does not imply that it is a, with a certain committee executive section,
the man who made the most use of himself, so in general, he has my actual expertise on what I'm describing.
The council of the himself has been charity to witnesses,
does not include that, but it does include an executive section,
was one member of the committee was present in the personal, under the role, that's what I'm talking about.
With Mr. Gueldos?
Well, as all some were interrogating a witness, I don't care anything about that,
I don't know, and the record has made all that they made.
I don't know, but it's been a minute to such a conference.
I don't know, none.
But wherever a witness is put on the role, forever, an executive section was held,
wherever anything was done in five years of secret, that's a part of this record.
Let's make it all public.
Mr. Chairman.
I'm here.
I have the attention, I have the subject of Mark and so, the subject of the comment.
I wonder if it might not be wise to modify that motion to exclude the material that Senator Dorsak suggests,
and then we have to money taken for a council, either for Mr. Stevens or not present.
So our council for Adams, not present for a council for this, by the table, is not present.
I think that, as many representatives, members of those parties are not present,
some of these executive persons are here.
Well, if that's what it is, if they were not passed to be present.
I think there are some of them, Mr. Jenkins, and we have to share the message.
Mr. Jenkins was conducting an interrogatory, where either council for Adams, Mr. Stevens, were not present.
I think it would be on there to make that public, because Mr. Stevens, Mr. Adams had no chance to cross-examine.
I think likewise, their witnesses were present, and either I and I might stand for a lot of their presence.
I think it would be unfair to make that public.
I think everything else would be public.
For a council for both sides, for an invited represent, I think all that would be made public.
The chair would like to raise this other additional point.
If we adopt the McClellan substitute, where we'd be releasing, presumably this afternoon or tomorrow sometimes,
the executive, the testimony taken in executive session, under oath, which is scheduled to come into these hearings at its appropriate time,
both on the army side and on the McCarthy side, perhaps three or four days, and now maybe a week from now.
But it would certainly be a very disarguely way in which to present a case, because instead of doing it,
as we have all agreed to, in an arguably procedure, we simply be dumping it all out on the table simultaneously.
And I don't think the government's been as accountable in orderly way to proceed with the interrogations to you.
Chairman, I hardly agree with what you said, and in addition to that, too, I will make this paper.
And perhaps the chairman is already covered in it.
We have examined the great many witnesses and the executive session when the chairman, along with the president and I was present,
representing the committee.
Many of those witnesses knew nothing, whatever, that shed any light on the controversies involved yet.
They were assured, as I recall, by both the chairman and myself, that the fact that they had been called in executive session and could under oath and yet give them testimony would be strictly confidential.
And that the fact that not even their names would be revealed, and I feel that Mr. Chairman is with the executive's confidence,
on our part, if we did otherwise then what we promised those witnesses at that time.
I have no mind right now, next connection.
I'd like to say, Senator McClell, with a witness who came under those circumstances, called incidentally the suggestion of Mr. Wilson.
We had a perfectly proper reason for calling, so it might have some information.
And we just knew, found there just wasn't any information that we had expected, and Mr. Wilson, I think it would be embarrassing to everybody, if under those circumstances you made that fact known and that testimony known.
But the person here, all of them, agreed to make this happen.
Mr. Chairman, I stand on the front end.
It's a request of the first half of all, discussing this question.
And the rising question that I was drawing my motion, so that I could take them up tomorrow morning, and the decision can be made at that time.
I think we have a sector of army here. We have many witnesses to hear us from today.
Mr. Chairman, I wish we would draw my motion to have this question, because it's the first thing to move on.
For the time of New York, I mean, now I may result in the same motion, but I understand that there is no motion as well, and it's a question of the situation in the rules.
And can you further remain in question?
The regular motion has been withdrawn, but now it's all the substance that you must have seen.
Mr. Chairman, I stand on the front end of Mr. New York.
Yes.
We have said that some of the Michigan students are going to be extremely difficult for me to discuss certain matters today, which I will have just go.
Unless I can freely discuss what I'm on that executive such as some of the knows we did go into this matter in detail.
And I think that that should be available now to all the centers to the public.
Otherwise, we'll be guessing about it, misscoding it in an advertisement later, which shouldn't be forced to do that.
So I wish the center was not withdrawn as motion.
If the senator is writing comments, I will say this.
I have no objection to having the executive section made public.
However, I do feel that no questions will be asked.
We'll discuss in this one point the question all morning.
And I would suggest that the chairman call at the conclusion of the morning hearing, the morning session, I think,
meeting this committee to act on this question I do feel.
So only that testimony of what was called before the council, the member of the committee, when assurances have been given to that person, that certainly is a thank you upon the right to that individual who has that testimony made public.
I don't want to leave the impression that anything is being hidden because of the executive section.
At the same time, you've got to protect the people who have been given assurances that their testimony was given in private and the same token may have no relationship to bond with President Connerman.
I'm not going to tell him that.
It wasn't really as far as the fellow witnesses there, and she didn't not get in public.
I don't want to say that the council has a part of the chairman's legal witness and make his testimony in effective session and give him assurance that it will not be made public.
I can't say anything in question. I might say that that was done.
It was done by the party and interest to call the witness on the assumption that this witness would have something to say that might be useful to his side of the case.
Finally, the witness had no information, then the person who saw them said that I had no desire to have them appear in public. That's where the assurance came from.
Mr. Chairman.
I'm very clear that I am only referring to the meeting we had last Monday.
You know what the witnesses were present.
At that time, we discussed in detail the secretary's order which called the recess.
I will want to quote from that. I don't want to quote from memory.
I think that should be made public.
As I say, I heard some of his up and down the table make long speeches saying everything should be on the table.
The chair will recall before we start.
I suggest that we have an official reporter present to take down everything that is said so no one could be in this book.
The chair agreed with me. We had an official reporter present.
The testimony or the statement was all available.
I can see no reason for this time where we can't disclose the last.
The other question, what other hearings have been made public?
Committee can certainly take it up a few days before it's time to turn.
Anybody anything else to say or any motion to make? There's nothing before the chair.
The absence of any other statement.
Chair, we would like to introduce Jason Cumpan.
This gentleman, a son here at Cumpan.
So, all we ask questions of the council is a little matter that I'd like to clear up.
I was down at the store over the weekend and based on some of the stories which appeared in the papers based on press conferences or statements made by the chairman.
There appears to be a general feeling in the papers of Missouri that there was some interest on the part of the Democrats
in not having the monitor telephone calls published.
Now, I know that Chairman would not want to say anything that's unfair to the Democratic members of this committee.
And I'm even more sure that he wouldn't want to say anything that's untrue.
In order to clarify this matter, I have a couple of short sentences here.
With all the principals and all the senators have placed for them this time.
And I would like to read that. It'll take about a minute.
It'll last.
I request that all monitor telephone calls between the office of the Secretary of the Army and myself,
which this subcommittee and its council believe are relevant to the issues now before the subcommittee,
shall be promptly made a part of public records.
I agree to be above provided all principals of each argument and members of this subcommittee also sign this agreement.
And then Mr. Chairman, I have a place for you to sign and send a dirtion and send a potter and send a dorsac and send a mccrollum
and send a Jackson and myself and send a McCarthy and Mr. Cohn and Mr. Carr and Mr. Hinsle and Secretary Steven and Mr. Adams.
And I would like to make this suggestion submitted to you, sir, and make it far the right to the climate.
I'm sure that you receive it and add further that Mr. Wilk can begin with the chair at the beginning of the session this morning
that he had just arrived back from Boston and not had a chance to read the letter which I sent him over the weekend,
which sent to him the four blanks signed by the Republicans and the three blanks signed by the Democrats,
and at which I said it, from those seven blanks he could deliver the monitor and cabinet statements through our council.
I hope he would do so. I mean, he could not. I hope he would tell us what he had to have so he could,
because we'd like to have that first step taken care of immediately. And it may be that Mr. Wilk has heard your statement read
and will find that helpful to him when he can purge with our council through the luncheon.
Now, Chairman, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Wilk, I say a single word you make. I apparently gave the chairman the impression that I'd arrived on the disforming from Boston.
I did in fact arrive about 10 o'clock last night, but did not see your letter until this morning.
Right, Mr. Chairman, you're off at the pieces like five.
All right, Mr. Jenkins. Mr. Smith, you're just one of the other ones.
I wonder if I may as a matter is being discussed strictly from legalistic angles.
And that is that it seems almost incredible to me that Mr. Wilk and his council and Mr. Roy Cohn and conceded these monitored conversations
by agreement between somebody and somebody. At the same time, not a single member of this committee,
sitting in judgment on these charges, has so far by any agreement been allowed to see any monitor telephone conversations.
Mr. Chairman, I would like to have the honor of having the first signatures on Senator Simon's paper produced by Mr. Stevens and Mr. Adams.
They would like the honor of being the first ones to put their names on your paper.
Now, Mr. Chairman, I would like to ask you what to make as if this matter is being cleared up.
We've certainly hoped it would be cleared up because it has been in the fall for a long time.
Now, Mr. Jenkins, will you proceed with this chairman?
I desire to make it perfectly clear at this time that the secretary of the army is being called to the witness them this morning out of water.
For one purpose and one purpose only in so far as direct and cross-examination of the secretary are concerned.
As we all know, the president issued a directive on May 17th following that the press carried a statement allegedly made by the secretary of the army under date of May 19th.
The purpose of this examination is to interrogate the secretary with respect to this release of May 19th and for no other purpose.
You are Mr. Robert K. Stevens, Secretary of the Army.
Yes, sir.
Even if my memory has not failed me, I believe you have yet a poor test of honesty hearings.
That is correct, sir.
Did you appoint yourself with the presidential directive of May 17th, Mr. Stevens, and particularly the context of that directive?
Yes, sir.
I would ask you whether or not after the issue is that directive you consulted with your attorneys and with your associates and with Mr. Adams and Mr. Welles.
I did.
Please state whether or not Mr. Secretary some two days following that directive and particularly on May 19th you issued a release to the press, a statement to the press.
I did, sir.
I will ask you whether or not you consulted with Mr. Adams and Mr. Welles prior to the issuance of that statement.
Yes, I did.
Do you have that statement with you in its original form?
Yes, I don't have the original, but I've got to put it in the exact copy of it, Mr. Stevens.
Yes, I will ask you to now please read the exact copy of your press release of May 19th, 1954 to the Supreme Committee.
The statement by the Secretary of the Army was as follows.
I wish to make it perfectly fine, but the decision and the act on the part of the Army, concerning the controversy,
presently being heard by the Senate's subcommittee, were the decisions and the action of the Department of the Army along.
At no time did the Army or I as its secretary receive any orders from anyone in respect to the preparation or presentation of the Army's case.
Specifically, the conference of January 21 was only for the purpose of the painting and interpretation of existing directives.
Actions taken by the Army prior or subsequent to the meeting were independent actions taken on the Army's own responsibilities.
As Secretary of the Army, I believe and now believe that the Army, its secretary and its counsel were subjected to improper pressures from front of the McCoy.
Mr. Cohn and Mr. Carr in respect to private G. David Chan.
I am convinced that the Army had no other honorable force and to bring those acts which I consider improper to the attention of the United States Senate.
No meeting or conference influenced my decision to protest and fight attempts to obtain preferential treatment for a private in the Army by the use of the power and prestige of the Senate committee.
At the end of the fight.
Mr. Cikicay is where words you on January 20th.
I was in the party.
You knew nothing about any conference between Mr. Adams and any members of the executive department of the government.
As was that date, that's right.
When did you first learn of such a meeting, Mr. Cikicay?
After my return from the party.
And what was the date of that?
The third of everywhere.
Without telling what was said, state-mother and opnestradents would discuss that meeting with you, be dead.
And a prize to you is the fact that such a meeting has been had.
That's correct.
I will ask you, Mr. Secretary of the Father and Noth, the statement you have just read under date of May 19th, 1954.
Is a true and correct statement of fact.
It is.
This is one other question, Mr. Cikicay.
Did you hear, Mr. Adams, testify in this controversy?
No, sir.
I will ask you or your counsel to turn the page 2619 of the record.
Seeing in Volume 15.
And I lead you an excerpt from the testimony of Mr. Adams, his testimony having been given prior to the presidential directive of May 17th.
And I am now reading from the second paragraph on that page.
At this meeting, Governor Adams asked me if I had the written record of all of the incidents with reference to private facts.